---
title: Draft Example
published: 2022-07-01
tags: [Markdown, Blogging, Demo]
category: Examples
draft: true
---

Dear Admission Services,

I hope this email finds you well. My name is Herschel Pravin Pawar,
and I am writing to inquire about the possibility of an exception to
the minimum GPA requirement for admission to either of these below
courses:

1. Game Design and Development — Computer, Communication and
   Information Sciences, Master of Science (Technology)
2. Computer Science — Computer, Communication and Information
   Sciences, Master of Science (Technology)
   at Aalto University.

I am from India, the minimum GPA requirement in 5 point grade is 4.0,
to my understanding, the equivalent for me would be 8.0. I have 7.4
GPA (66.1%). Likewise, I would like to provide some context regarding
my circumstances, which I hope will help you consider my application
holistically.

During Covid-19 lockdown, I faced significant challenges related to my
mental health. I was already suffering from extreme burnout due to
lifelong pressure from family regarding passing JEE Advance (entrance
test for the best colleges in India) and then me realizing that I
won't be able to pass the test in any capacity. I am still recovering
from the burnout, despite my passion for computer science and game
development, I am unable to perform well in traditional studies. Due
to burnout, I could only manage to do the bare minimum for college.

The burnout then compounded with stress from my father's death and
lead me to developing insomnia. Then, I started suffering from
depression and suicidal thoughts. I was stuck in a negative cycle, and
it took me a few months to break the cycle. I then started exploring
my gender and sexuality and realized I'm queer and neurodivergent. Not
only that, I had just been suppressing all the feelings for years.

During college, I started wondering if I have some kind of ADHD, up
until then, I had the misunderstanding that ADHD means I have to be
hyperactive, however, I am quite the opposite. I talked to a bunch of
my friends, and they cleared the misunderstanding. I started drinking
coffee (since caffeine is a stimulant and coffee is legal and safe) in
hopes that I will be able to become productive, and it worked. Ever
since then, I have been trying my best to find what I am interested
in. I have checked out quite a few fields of work.

I had used Linux on and off since 8th grade. So, my first instinct was
to try System Administrator. I was using Fedora, so it made sense to
me to try for Red Hat Certified System Administrator and Red Hat
Certified Engineer certifications. However, due to a series of
unfortunate events, I was suffering from intense brain fog due to
stress caused by the events preceding the exam, and I failed the
exams. Though, I do know that I can pass the exams if I am under less
pressure. I also dipped my toes in cloud services, but quickly hit a
brick wall since they require credit card.

Then I wanted to give programming a chance again. There is a digital
Japanese marketplace called Booth (https://booth.pm), it hosts 3d
models, fonts, artwork, books, etc. I wanted to scrape the data and
preserve it. My first prototype was made using Microsoft Power
Automate (Desktop Edition). However, I quickly ran into performance
issues. I then switched to python since it was (allegedly) easy to
use. It was fine at first, I was able to get stuff done with the help
of my friends. However, I kept getting runtime errors, and it always
stressed me out. By this time, I kept hearing about the Rust
programming language from my friends and how good it is. As a last
ditch effort, I decided to learn Rust and use that instead, and I
haven't looked back since.

Turns out, the Rust programming language's model fits really well with
neurodivergent people, and especially with people with autism. It
allowed me to be productive and removed a lot of stress that python
brought me. I can make long-running programs and if they fail at any
time, it's because I overlooked an edge case or one of my fundamental
assumptions was wrong.

I have also tried game development. I am a proponent of free and open
source software, so I went with the Godot Game Engine, and I fell in
love with its simplicity and how good the documentation was. I loved
how I could just read the documentation and figure out how it can be
useful. So, I made a bunch of small games, some by following
tutorials, others by copying old games.

Earlier this year, I attended Coventry University's Summer School for
Game Development. There, we were taught how to use the Unity Game
Engine. My experience with Unity was subpar compared to what I have
come to expect with Godot and Rust. The documentation feels obtuse, I
need to rely more on my friends for support. At the end of the Summer
School, a game jam was held, my team and I finished in 2nd position.

I have heard bad experiences from people working in the game
development industry and despite everything I've heard, I keep coming
back to game development. Recently I've started looking into game
engines and how they work. I also started checking out how to use the
biggest game engine in Rust and I did manage to make a simple pong
game.

So, I believe that my GPA does not reflect my abilities.

Other than these personal projects, I have been interacting with the
Rust community, I attend meetups, and I have even gone out of my way
to attend a summit in another state. I have always loved watching
people talk about their interests. I feel like I have reached a point
where I have enough knowledge and experience to give a talk myself. My
current aim is to give a talk in the next meetup, possibly in
February.

Finally, after college ended, I was stumped on what to do. Do I want
to study more? But I'm still recovering from burnout. Do I want to get
a job? I would like to not get stressed due to programming language
design choices. So, I was searching for both the things at the same
time, but I did not commit to either. That changed when I met my
current partner, who lives in Finland. After meeting her, I solidified
my decision. I want to study more and move to Finland.

I have a diverse perspective and I believe I can contribute
positively. I am passionate to learn more about game development, and
I am eager to collaborate with faculty and peers.

One of the reasons I have not gotten an official diagnosis is because
it's considered a “taboo”. To my family, I am a bit weird/quirky but
nothing wrong. I have had two family members commit suicide due to
mental health issues, but we only found out about it after their
unfortunate death.

I would also greatly appreciate the opportunity to discuss my
situation further.

Thank you for considering my request. I truely hope to have an
opportunity to study in Aalto University and look forward to your
response.

Regards,
Herschel Pravin Pawar